demo/README.md, before:

# Angles - Demonstration and Examples

The HTML pages in this directory demonstrate how to use Angles with a number of optional components.

## `index.html`

The basic demonstration shows how to use Angles with the optional file upload/download components but without any server-side components.

### Contextual help

Type `<` to open a pop up showing the TEI elements allowed in a given context (TEI-all only).
This uses the JSON file `p5subset.js`, taken from [TEI's vault](http://www.tei-c.org/Vault/P5/current/xml/tei/odd/).

**N.B.** You can generate your own JSON for contextual help from any TEI ODD. Use [odd2json.xslt](https://github.com/TEIC/Stylesheets/blob/master/odds/odd2json.xsl) from the TEI GitHub Stylesheet repository - *make sure to set the paramenter showChildren to "true"*.

### Notifications

Display a message or update the status indicator (green/red box in top right corner)

### Local storage

Save and load current document to your browser's HTML5 Local Storage (:warning: you'll have to clear your Locale Storage manually to remove unwanted data).

### Save to disk

Save your work to disk.

### Upload file from disk

Upload a file from your computer. Once loaded, it gets stored in the HTML5 Local Storage. 

### Validation

This demonstration uses the `rng.js` JSON file as the JavaScript-friendly representation of a light-weight TEI schema for simple validation of the TEI without requiring a separate server process.


## `srvValidation.html`

## Validation

This demonstrates how to hook to an online validation service. During development we used [a simple Scalatra service](https://github.com/travisbrown/validation-demo). 

If you want to use a different service or implement your own, you might need to override `Angles.ValidatorSRV.requestHandler` and `Angles.ValidatorSRV.validationHandler` to send the right request to your server.

Commit message:

added warning about optional dependencies

demo/README.md, after:

# Angles - Demonstration and Examples

The HTML pages in this directory demonstrate how to use Angles with a number of optional components.

To make the demo page work, you will need to install the optional dependencies, which are not included in the `bower` configuration:

```
$ bower install Backbone.localStorage
$ bower install FileSaver
```

## `index.html`

The basic demonstration shows how to use Angles with the optional file upload/download components but without any server-side components.

### Contextual help

Type `<` to open a pop up showing the TEI elements allowed in a given context (TEI-all only).
This uses the JSON file `p5subset.js`, taken from [TEI's vault](http://www.tei-c.org/Vault/P5/current/xml/tei/odd/).

**N.B.** You can generate your own JSON for contextual help from any TEI ODD. Use [odd2json.xslt](https://github.com/TEIC/Stylesheets/blob/master/odds/odd2json.xsl) from the TEI GitHub Stylesheet repository - *make sure to set the paramenter showChildren to "true"*.

### Notifications

Display a message or update the status indicator (green/red box in top right corner)

### Local storage

Save and load current document to your browser's HTML5 Local Storage (:warning: you'll have to clear your Locale Storage manually to remove unwanted data).

### Save to disk

Save your work to disk.

### Upload file from disk

Upload a file from your computer. Once loaded, it gets stored in the HTML5 Local Storage. 

### Validation

This demonstration uses the `rng.js` JSON file as the JavaScript-friendly representation of a light-weight TEI schema for simple validation of the TEI without requiring a separate server process.


## `srvValidation.html`

## Validation

This demonstrates how to hook to an online validation service. During development we used [a simple Scalatra service](https://github.com/travisbrown/validation-demo). 

If you want to use a different service or implement your own, you might need to override `Angles.ValidatorSRV.requestHandler` and `Angles.ValidatorSRV.validationHandler` to send the right request to your server.
